Additional Tips from #Idea-Discussion (#1535)
UristMcStation/UristMcStation: config/tips.txt

Floor Tiles can be sharpened using a wirecutter to create a more deadly thrown projectile.
Spacesuits have injection ports to administer medicine safely while in low pressure environments. These however take extra time to use.
Setting your suit sensors to maximum isn't a good idea if you are an antagonist, as medbay can track wherever you go.
Wrapping a bedsheet around a glass shard makes it easier to hold.

> Painkillers do not actually heal you - they just keep you standing.

Reviewer: Does this really need saying?

If you don't have a hazard vest, you can make armor using rail assemblies to hold together steel sheets - be aware of electrical conduction.
A rag can hold some liquid - smothering someone's mouth will force them to breathe it in...
You can take apart scissors with a screwdriver.
Roll two newspapers together to swat away pests - then put a shard or a scissor blade in it...
Syringes are delicate - do not harmfully stab someone with one, or you may transfer some bad reagents into them!

> On a small ship, cooperation is key. Kind words or a friendly PDA e-mail can make a much more fulfilling round.

Reviewer: Honestly, I'm against these kind of 'rp' tips. They can come off quite preachy. I think we should stick to tips that are centred around gameplay mechanics

Touching the Supermatter shard is good for health.

> Sometimes things don't go your way. Try and enjoy the ride, there's always next time - maybe your story helped make someone elses.

Reviewer: As above

Be polite. Be efficient. Have a plan to slip everyone you meet.

> Teaching your fellow spaceman is a time honored tradition. Help the new players out, pass the torch.

Reviewer: As above

Don't forget. You're here forever.
A lot of things can be ground up to make chemicals and materials. Try and grind up a Danitos package, if you dare!
Modular computers have a lot of utility. Buy some programs for it, or use the wall computers to send everyone in a department a message if they're not listening to the radio! Some can even be health scanners!

> As an antagonist, there are many ways to be engaging to the crew without being overtly violent - social engineering, blackmailing, stealing from the vault to give to the lower crew, sometimes a round can be more fun without murder.

Reviewer: As above

A character with Exploitables will show up with a red name in the Uplink. Fill out your Exploitable Information with a plausible story for your character - you are doing a public service for new antagonist players to work with.
When there is no captain at the start, other heads of staff can become the acting-captain and secure important items such as the captain's spare and do job changes.
Interacting with an alien artifact without proper protection can be hazardous for your health! Consider wearing anomaly protection gear before you end up in Medbay.

> On the Nerva, Cargo is in charge of Research and Development and Ship ammo manufaction, ensure a steady supply of torpedoes for the Nerva, and research for the Roboticist.

Reviewer: The map may not always be the Nerva, we also have downstream forks that don't have the Nerva at all.
Also science also has access to RnD and it can be argued they share the department, so this tip seems a little odd.

> As a Scientist, you have access to the Hadrian, which you can use to freely explore nearby planets, discover ancient ruins or dangerous ships, collect specimens, name caught aliens awful things, invent a reason as to why this alien artifact prints dead clowns, explore!

Reviewer: As above, the map might not be the Nerva + downstreams. Perhaps we could add a system for map-specific tips in future?

Reviewer 2: could make a map var for the tip config file. it'd give you duplicated tips across files but that's the most straightforward way of doing that. or add map specific tips only to map tip config files and pull from both the map specific one and the main tips.txt

The traditional Baystation 12 skill system has no effect here, everyone is on the same skills.
As a Janitor, the way your vessel looks represents the psyche of the crew: Clean the blood trails, collect the glass shards, do what you can to keep up a clean apperance, before the crew go mad.
Clumsy characters cannot safely operate firearms, and have poor skills in disarming and pushing people down. A good clown always knows a way around this.
The declumsifier in the antagonist uplink can make the playing field equal for the clown. Arm up, and make them pay for what they did.
Mimes should never break the vow of silence.

> Clicking the occupation name allows you to select a more personalized title for the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking the occupation name inside of character setup allows you to select alternative titles for the role.
```

You have 12 loadout points to personalize your character's outfit and items, don't just pack a boot knife!

> Escalation is fun if it is done well, immediatley killing half the crew when you roll antag isn't very fun.

Reviewer: As before with rp-ish tips. I'm personally not a fan

Low strength infections can be fought with some cold medicine, but for stronger ones, nothing a visit from the antibiotics fairy can't fix.
Doing gimmicks are fun as long as they're novel, but lose their shine quickly over time. Always try to innovate your storytelling methods, especially as a clown, mime, or antagonist.
If you make at least 3 or 4 people remember the round by next week, you did better than most players.
The players and the game masters have the same goal: to tell a good story. Ask for assistance in your ideas - trade for items not in the uplink, to creating fax messages for the ship and turning into a full blown mini-event.
You don't have to kill everyone in a conflict: A drunken fist fight in the bar that results in brawlers reconciling and getting drunk together - a classic example that will be impossible if you escalate it into a saloon shootout.
Does success really bring joy? Remember the rounds where the crew professionally neutralized all the traitors at the very beginning and nothing happened for an hour - the only real victory is a grand defeat for somebody.

> Roleplay is actually the easiest part of this game. If you roleplay badly, at least the only one hurt is you. Not so if you mess up the supermatter!

Reviewer: As above

As an antagonist, you can Set Ambition with a summary of what you intended/set out on doing. This will show up on the Round End summary.

> You don't have to be to be the perfect objective-completing machine. It makes a character much more believable if you have to work around flaws instead of ignoring them when convenient.

Reviewer: As above

As a dirty detective, you can remove the tape from a tape recorder and use wirecutters to manipulate it.
Skrell and Tritonians handle water very easily.
Maintenance drones will not disturb fellow synthetics.
As an IPC or FBP, there is a verb to change your eye color using RGB at will.
Lung damage occurs in a severe change in pressure. A space suit prevents this, but you will still need internals to avoid suffocation.
Using a multitool on a smartgun will disable the tracker, but prevents it from firing. An emag works better...
The deck management program will allow you to file a flight plan, giving some information on shuttle movements and automatically announcing them across the ship.
Gas inhalation is reagent-based: treat yourself with dialysis/anti-toxin as your lungs send the phoron particles into your bloodstream.
Melee weapons have different attack cooldowns. Generally small knifes are faster, big toolboxes and axes are slower.
If you aren't wearing magboots, you will slip in zero-gravity.
Accuracy also affects melee and disarms: you are a lot less likely to hit if you are blind, blurry eyes, confused, in pain (hearing audible heart beating sound), etc...

> Grabbing a limb and attacking with help intent will Examine, checking for external injuries, bone fractures, or poorly concealed implants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grabbing a limb and clicking with help intent will examine, checking for external injuries, bone fractures, or poorly concealed implants.
```

Blood spraying out in shots from a limb is a rupture of a major blood vessel, causing a quick death - delay it by using gauze and applying pressure with your hand or a medical splint.

> Cut a hole in the elevator shaft and throw your enemies down it. Leave them to cringe and whimper in a pool of their own blood and bone fractures.

Reviewer: eeeeeeeh again, map might not always be the Nerva, so I'm not really too fond of map-specific tips personally

In case of gravity fluctuations and turbulence, remain seated so you don't fall over!

> Booze Cruising with the Nerva is fun!

Reviewer: As above

You can cut the orange muzzle off of a cap gun using wire cutters. Very dastardly.

> Removing all antagonists from play in the first hour of the round is a great way to make a boring, forgettable round. Try to keep people in play in some way.

Reviewer: As before re: rp tips
